docs/flexible cropping sequences.rst, before:

Flexible Cropping Sequences
========================================
The previous tutorial section introduced how to represent predetermined crop rotations in APSIM.
However, whenever cropping system research aims to simulate likely farmer behaviour in a forward looking manner,
the simulation of a fixed, predetermined crop rotation is hardly realistic.
Instead, farm managers often have a couple of typical cropping strategies, between which they will shift quite flexibly based on changing context conditions.
For example, in south-east Queensland, farmers can flexibly change between summer- and winter-dominant cropping patterns based on seasonally changing water availability and soil moisture storage from preceding months.
Another driver of rapid shifts in crop choice can be pest outbreaks (such as the shift out of maize following the first appearance and spread of fall armyworm in Australia) 
or pronounced and sudden changes in price incentives (for example, as a consequence to the 30% tariff imposed on chickpea and lentil imports into India in 2017).

In this section, we will explore how to define such flexible cropping sequences that dynamically determine crop choice based on external conditions.


Case Study Context
----------------------------------------
This tutorial focusses on representing a flexible cropping strategy within the exemplary agro-ecological context of the *Darling Downs* growing region.
This production region in South-East Queensland (Australia) is characterised by two major crop growing periods, summer and winter.
The region is characterised by a summer-dominant rainfall pattern and most farmers correspondingly adopt predominantly a summer-dominant cropping strategy.
However, over the last two decades, the planted area of winter crops has steadily increased.
Many farmers have adopted highly climate-responsive, opportunistic cropping strategies, 
implementing high cropping intensity whenever adequate water resources are available, regardless of the season.
Evidence of this flexible alternation between summer- and winter-dominant cropping is visible even in aggregate government statistics on seasonal planted area across Queensland (`ABARES, 2024`_).

In the following, we will aim to represent such an opportunistic cropping strategy within the ``RotationManager`` of APSIM.
It is important to remember, that this scenario serves as an illustrative example only.
Our core focus is to demonstrate a workflow in APSIM that can readily be transferred to other agro-ecological settings and applications.
For example, in production regions where a wheat-dominant crop rotation is largely predetermined, such as in parts of Western Australia, 
there is little value in configuring a ``RotationManager`` that represents flexible crop choices.

In such contexts, the design logic presented in this tutorial can instead be applied to other dynamic aspects of the local cropping system, for example, 
simulating flexible soil management decisions rather than flexible crop choices. 
This could include, for instance, the occasional application of soil amendments such as lime when selected soil properties fall below specified thresholds.


Cropping Scenario
----------------------------------------
As flexible cropping scenario, we consider a hypothetical broadacre farmer in the Darling Downs region
that is generally willing to grow both summer and winter crops, depending on seasonal conditions.
As summer crops, the farmer commonly grows sorghum and mungbean, 
while as winter crops, wheat and chickpea are readily available options.

To keep some realism, but avoid some of the complicated detail that will be involved in simulating a real case study farm,
we will consider here that the farmer determines the crop choice on three subsequent decisions:

- Absolute water availability
    During the sowing window, a threshold for water availability determines if a crop is sown at all or if the field is left fallow.
    This is exactly similar to the decision logic presented in the previous tutorial section on basic crop rotations.

- Crop sequence (Disease pressure and nitrogen management)
    The continuous cropping of cereals or legumes can lead to increased disease pressure and suboptimal nitrogen management.
    Here we will implement the following simple rule: If the previous two cultivated crops were cereals,
    the next crop must be a legume. Instead, if the previous crop was a legume, the next crop must be a cereal.

- Time of season and relative water availability
    The above two rules will determine in most seasons which crop will be sown.
    However, the above still leaves flexibility in some seasons, where none of the above rules is binding 
    (e.g., when the past two crops were a legume followed by a cereal, the above rules do not determine which crop will be sown).
    In such cases, the farmer will sow a legume if sowing conditions are fulfilled early in the season,
    and otherwise sow cereals.

The above rules have been chosen on purpose for this tutorial, 
as they demonstrate how to implement conditions that depend on both 
(i) the progression of the simulation (i.e., the previous crops grown), and 
(ii) the prevailing environmental conditions (i.e., water availability).
While the specific rules that you will require for your own study cases are likely to differ,
many cases can be represented by the general logic presented here.


Crop Sequence Diagram
----------------------------------------
The first step in implementing the above flexible cropping strategy 
is to represent the desired crop sequences within the ``RotationManager``.
In other words, we have to generate a suitable bubble chart.
As a starting point for this tutorial section, please utilise the following *APSIMX file*:
`CropRotation_flexible_start.apsimx <_APSIM_code/CropRotation_flexible_start/CropRotation_flexible_start.apsimx>`_.
Using an existing *APSIMX file* as the starting point, allows to skip over some aspects already covered in previous tutorial sections
and instead focus on the new aspects relevant for flexible cropping sequences.

Currently, the ``RotationManager`` canvas is empty.
Please take a moment to try and represent the above defined cropping sequence via a suitable bubble chart.
If you work on this solution with a colleague, 
please note that there are many possible ways to represent the desired crop sequence within the ``RotationManager`` canvas.
At this point, it is useful for you to first try to come up with your own solution,
as this will assist you in developing a better conceptual understanding of representing cropping sequences within the ``RotationManager``.

.. raw:: html

   <details>
   <summary><b>Show/Hide Solution: Crop Sequence Diagram</b></summary>

   <p>The most concise way of representing the cropping sequence (that we could think of) is shown below.
   It minimises the number of crop nodes required to represent the system,
   while requiring a moderately higher number of transitions (i.e., arcs).
   </p>

   <img src="_static/APSIMscreenshot_BubbleChart_flexible.png" alt="BubbleChart_flexible" width="80%">

   <p>However, there are many different ways in which one can conceptualise and setup the bubble chart.
   Here below, we show another commonly used alternative, where a separate node for the off-season periods in autumn and spring is created.
   While such nodes are not strictly necessary for representing the system in APSIM, 
   they allow to keep the summer and winter season neatly separated within the bubble chart.
   This solution also limits the number of transitions (i.e., arcs) needed to represent the system.
   </p>

   <img src="_static/APSIMscreenshot_BubbleChart_flexible_withBreakPeriod.png" alt="BubbleChart_flexible_withBreakPeriod" width="80%">

   <p>
    It is important to note that, while an equivalent APSIM simulation can be generated with different bubble chart designs,
    they may often require different manager scripts.
    For the remainder of the tutorial, we will proceed with the first solution shown above.
    We also recommend that you continue working with the same setup,
    as this will make it easier to follow along.
    </p>
    At this stage, we can also add descriptive names to the transitions within the bubble chart.
    Here, we chose to be quite verbose with the transition names, to avoid any confusion later on.
    The downside is that this looks a bit cluttered within the bubble chart.
    However, since we already have a good conceptual understanding of the cropping sequence,
    we are unlikely to spend too much time looking at the bubble chart from now on.
    Instead, when referencing the name of specific transitions, a clear and unambiguous naming convention will come in handy.
   </p>

   <img src="_static/APSIMscreenshot_BubbleChart_flexible_withTransitionNames.png" alt="APSIMscreenshot_BubbleChart_flexible_withTransitionNames" width="80%">

   </details>



Transitioning between Plot States
----------------------------------------











Subheading
----------------------------------------

Sub-Subheading
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^




References
----------------------------------------

.. _ABARES, 2024:

ABARES. (2024). Snapshot of Australian Agriculture 2024. Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Science (ABARES). https://doi.org/10.25814/473z-7187

Commit message:

Intro text on transition manager scripts

docs/flexible cropping sequences.rst, after:

Flexible Cropping Sequences
========================================
The previous tutorial section introduced how to represent predetermined crop rotations in APSIM.
However, whenever cropping system research aims to simulate likely farmer behaviour in a forward looking manner,
the simulation of a fixed, predetermined crop rotation is hardly realistic.
Instead, farm managers often have a couple of typical cropping strategies, between which they will shift quite flexibly based on changing context conditions.
For example, in south-east Queensland, farmers can flexibly change between summer- and winter-dominant cropping patterns based on seasonally changing water availability and soil moisture storage from preceding months.
Another driver of rapid shifts in crop choice can be pest outbreaks (such as the shift out of maize following the first appearance and spread of fall armyworm in Australia) 
or pronounced and sudden changes in price incentives (for example, as a consequence to the 30% tariff imposed on chickpea and lentil imports into India in 2017).

In this section, we will explore how to define such flexible cropping sequences that dynamically determine crop choice based on external conditions.


Case Study Context
----------------------------------------
This tutorial focusses on representing a flexible cropping strategy within the exemplary agro-ecological context of the *Darling Downs* growing region.
This production region in South-East Queensland (Australia) is characterised by two major crop growing periods, summer and winter.
The region is characterised by a summer-dominant rainfall pattern and most farmers correspondingly adopt predominantly a summer-dominant cropping strategy.
However, over the last two decades, the planted area of winter crops has steadily increased.
Many farmers have adopted highly climate-responsive, opportunistic cropping strategies, 
implementing high cropping intensity whenever adequate water resources are available, regardless of the season.
Evidence of this flexible alternation between summer- and winter-dominant cropping is visible even in aggregate government statistics on seasonal planted area across Queensland (`ABARES, 2024`_).

In the following, we will aim to represent such an opportunistic cropping strategy within the ``RotationManager`` of APSIM.
It is important to remember, that this scenario serves as an illustrative example only.
Our core focus is to demonstrate a workflow in APSIM that can readily be transferred to other agro-ecological settings and applications.
For example, in production regions where a wheat-dominant crop rotation is largely predetermined, such as in parts of Western Australia, 
there is little value in configuring a ``RotationManager`` that represents flexible crop choices.

In such contexts, the design logic presented in this tutorial can instead be applied to other dynamic aspects of the local cropping system, for example, 
simulating flexible soil management decisions rather than flexible crop choices. 
This could include, for instance, the occasional application of soil amendments such as lime when selected soil properties fall below specified thresholds.


Cropping Scenario
----------------------------------------
As flexible cropping scenario, we consider a hypothetical broadacre farmer in the Darling Downs region
that is generally willing to grow both summer and winter crops, depending on seasonal conditions.
As summer crops, the farmer commonly grows sorghum and mungbean, 
while as winter crops, wheat and chickpea are readily available options.

To keep some realism, but avoid some of the complicated detail that will be involved in simulating a real case study farm,
we will consider here that the farmer determines the crop choice on three subsequent decisions:

- Absolute water availability
    During the sowing window, a threshold for water availability determines if a crop is sown at all or if the field is left fallow.
    This is exactly similar to the decision logic presented in the previous tutorial section on basic crop rotations.

- Crop sequence: Disease pressure and nitrogen management
    The continuous cropping of cereals or legumes can lead to increased disease pressure and suboptimal nitrogen management.
    Here we will implement the following simple rule: If the previous two cultivated crops were cereals,
    the next crop must be a legume. Instead, if the previous crop was a legume, the next crop must be a cereal.
    Thereby, we will simply consider the last cultivated crops, regardless of whether the plot has intermittentlly be left fallow.

- Time of season and relative water availability
    The above two rules will determine in most seasons which crop will be sown.
    However, the above still leaves flexibility in some seasons, where none of the above rules is binding 
    (e.g., when the past two crops were a legume followed by a cereal, the above rules do not determine which crop will be sown).
    In such cases, the farmer will sow a legume if sowing conditions are fulfilled early in the season,
    and otherwise sow cereals.

The above rules have been chosen on purpose for this tutorial, 
as they demonstrate how to implement conditions that depend on both 
(i) the progression of the simulation (i.e., the previous crops grown), and 
(ii) the prevailing environmental conditions (i.e., water availability).
While the specific rules that you will require for your own study cases are likely to differ,
many cases can be represented by the general logic presented here.


Crop Sequence Diagram
----------------------------------------
The first step in implementing the above flexible cropping strategy 
is to represent the desired crop sequences within the ``RotationManager``.
In other words, we have to generate a suitable bubble chart.
As a starting point for this tutorial section, please utilise the following *APSIMX file*:
`CropRotation_flexible_start.apsimx <_APSIM_code/CropRotation_flexible_start/CropRotation_flexible_start.apsimx>`_.
Using an existing *APSIMX file* as the starting point, allows to skip over some aspects already covered in previous tutorial sections
and instead focus on the new aspects relevant for flexible cropping sequences.

Currently, the ``RotationManager`` canvas is empty.
Please take a moment to try and represent the above defined cropping sequence via a suitable bubble chart.
If you work on this solution with a colleague, 
please note that there are many possible ways to represent the desired crop sequence within the ``RotationManager`` canvas.
At this point, it is useful for you to first try to come up with your own solution,
as this will assist you in developing a better conceptual understanding of representing cropping sequences within the ``RotationManager``.

.. raw:: html

   <details>
   <summary><b>Show/Hide Solution: Crop Sequence Diagram</b></summary>

   <p>The most concise way of representing the cropping sequence (that we could think of) is shown below.
   It minimises the number of crop nodes required to represent the system,
   while requiring a moderately higher number of transitions (i.e., arcs).
   </p>

   <img src="_static/APSIMscreenshot_BubbleChart_flexible.png" alt="BubbleChart_flexible" width="80%">

   <p>However, there are many different ways in which one can conceptualise and setup the bubble chart.
   Here below, we show another commonly used alternative, where a separate node for the off-season periods in autumn and spring is created.
   While such nodes are not strictly necessary for representing the system in APSIM, 
   they allow to keep the summer and winter season neatly separated within the bubble chart.
   This solution also limits the number of transitions (i.e., arcs) needed to represent the system.
   </p>

   <img src="_static/APSIMscreenshot_BubbleChart_flexible_withBreakPeriod.png" alt="BubbleChart_flexible_withBreakPeriod" width="80%">

   <p>
    It is important to note that, while an equivalent APSIM simulation can be generated with different bubble chart designs,
    they may often require different manager scripts.
    For the remainder of the tutorial, we will proceed with the first solution shown above.
    We also recommend that you continue working with the same setup,
    as this will make it easier to follow along.
    </p>
    At this stage, we can also add descriptive names to the transitions within the bubble chart.
    Here, we chose to be quite verbose with the transition names, to avoid any confusion later on.
    The downside is that this looks a bit cluttered within the bubble chart.
    However, since we already have a good conceptual understanding of the cropping sequence,
    we are unlikely to spend too much time looking at the bubble chart from now on.
    Instead, when referencing the name of specific transitions, a clear and unambiguous naming convention will come in handy.
   </p>

   <img src="_static/APSIMscreenshot_BubbleChart_flexible_withTransitionNames.png" alt="APSIMscreenshot_BubbleChart_flexible_withTransitionNames" width="80%">

   </details>



Transitioning between Plot States
----------------------------------------
Now that the overall structure of nodes and transition rules of the cropping sequence has been defined in the ``RotationManager``,
the next step is to generate suitable manager scripts that will be called upon by the transition rules (i.e., the arcs).
For this, we again have to generate such manager scripts within the ``Paddock`` node of the simulation tree and then call them in the transition rules.
To keep the tutorial focused on the new aspects of flexible cropping sequences,
we will start off from a pre-configured *APSIMX file* that modified and updated the previous file `CropRotation_basic.apsimx <_APSIM_code/CropRotation_basic/CropRotation_basic.apsimx>`_
with skills and changes that we have already covered in previous tutorial sections.
Please download and open the following *APSIMX file* as your starting point: `CropRotation_flexible_start.apsimx <_APSIM_code/CropRotation_flexible_start/CropRotation_flexible_start.apsimx>`_.

There are a number of changes that have been done:

- Crop models for a total of four crops are included in the simulation tree (sorghum, mungbean, wheat, chickpea).
- Draft manager scripts for sowing and harvesting have been created for each crop (as simple copy and adaptation of the previously used managers and without any thorough adaptation to our new simulation conditions).
- Fertiliser scripts have been added for each crop.
- Parameters for the soil-crop interactions, specifically the Plant Available Water Capacity (PAWC), have been added for the new (under the *Soil node* ``HRS`` -> ``Physical``). 
- 
- The data reporting notes (both daily reports and at harvest) have been updated to account for the new crops.
- The graphing nodes have been updated to account for the new crops.








Subheading
----------------------------------------

Sub-Subheading
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^




References
----------------------------------------

.. _ABARES, 2024:

ABARES. (2024). Snapshot of Australian Agriculture 2024. Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Science (ABARES). https://doi.org/10.25814/473z-7187
