docs/simple continuous cropping.rst, before:

Simple Continuous Cropping
=====
The most classical starting point in the learning and usage of crop models is the simulation of a single crop cycle, from sowing to harvest.
For example, when crop models are used to simulate various treatments of an agricultural field trial, 
each treatment is typically represented by a single crop cycle simulation. 
This even holds true if the experimental data stems from multi-year trials on identical plots.
Crop model simulations of such single crop cycles are typically used for crop model calibration and evaluation, as well as subsequent more analytical investigations. 
These may include exploring the effects of different management practices or changing environmental conditions on crop growth and yield.

This section expands on this classical starting point by demonstrating how to set up and run a simple long-term simulation of a single crop grown continuously over multiple years.
Thereby, we consider both the case of carrying over the simulation state from one crop cycle to the next
while briefly also comparing it to resetting the simulation state at the beginning of each new crop cycle.


Long-term simulation of a single crop with state carry-over
-------------------------------------




`Sorghum APSIM example <_APSIM_code/Sorghum_continuous_carryOver/Sorghum_continuous_carryOver.apsimx>`_

For instance, consider the example APSIM file ``Sorghum.apsimx`` included with the APSIM installation, 
which you can access by selecting "Open an Example" from the top toolbar of the APSIM graphical user interface (GUI).


.. figure:: _static/APSIMscreenshot_topLevelToolbar.png
   :alt: APSIM top-level toolbar
   :align: center
   :width: 100%

   Top toolbar from the APSIM GUI, showing the "Open an Example" button.

This example file simulates irrigated sorghum in Dalby, Queensland, Australia. However, instead of simulating exclusively a single crop cycle, from sowing to harvest,
this example file simulates the continuous growth of sorghum over a period of 100 years, from 1900 to 2000.

a single sorghum crop grown in a tropical environment in Queensland, Australia.

cycle, from sowing to harvest









Example: Basic Sphinx project for Read the Docs
-------------------------------------

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/example-sphinx-basic/badge/?version=latest
    :target: https://example-sphinx-basic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
    :alt: Documentation Status

.. This README.rst should work on Github and is also included in the Sphinx documentation project in docs/ - therefore, README.rst uses absolute links for most things so it renders properly on GitHub

This example shows a basic Sphinx project with Read the Docs. You're encouraged to view it to get inspiration and copy & paste from the files in the source code. If you are using Read the Docs for the first time, have a look at the official `Read the Docs Tutorial <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/index.html>`__.

📚 `docs/ <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/>`_
    A basic Sphinx project lives in ``docs/``. All the ``*.rst`` make up sections in the documentation.
⚙️ `.readthedocs.yaml <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/.readthedocs.yaml>`_
    Read the Docs Build configuration is stored in ``.readthedocs.yaml``.
⚙️ `docs/conf.py <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/conf.py>`_
    Both the configuration and the folder layout follow Sphinx default conventions. You can change the `Sphinx configuration values <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/configuration.html>`_ in this file
📍 `docs/requirements.txt <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/requirements.txt>`_ and `docs/requirements.in <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/requirements.in>`_
    Python dependencies are `pinned <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/reproducible-builds.html>`_ (uses `pip-tools <https://pip-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_). Make sure to add your Python dependencies to ``requirements.txt`` or if you choose `pip-tools <https://pip-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_, edit ``docs/requirements.in`` and remember to run ``pip-compile docs/requirements.in``.
💡 `docs/api.rst <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/api.rst>`_
    By adding our example Python module ``lumache`` in the reStructuredText directive ``:autosummary:``, Sphinx will automatically scan this module and generate API docs.
💡 `docs/usage.rst <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/usage.rst>`_
    Sphinx can automatically extract API documentation directly from Python modules, using for instance the ``:autofunction:`` directive.
💡 `lumache.py <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/lumache.py>`_
    API docs are generated for this example Python module - they use *docstrings* directly in the documentation, notice how this shows up in the rendered documentation.
🔢 Git tags versioning
    We use a basic versioning mechanism by adding a git tag for every release of the example project. All releases and their version numbers are visible on `example-sphinx-basic.readthedocs.io <https://example-sphinx-basic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__.
📜 `README.rst <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/README.rst>`_
    Contents of this ``README.rst`` are visible on Github and included on `the documentation index page <https://example-sphinx-basic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ (Don't Repeat Yourself).
⁉️ Questions / comments
    If you have questions related to this example, feel free to can ask them as a Github issue `here <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/issues>`_.


Example Project usage
---------------------

This project has a standard Sphinx layout which is built by Read the Docs almost the same way that you would build it locally (on your own laptop!).

You can build and view this documentation project locally - we recommend that you activate `a local Python virtual environment first <https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#creating-a-virtual-environment>`_:

.. code-block:: console

    # Install required Python dependencies (Sphinx etc.)
    pip install -r docs/requirements.txt

    # Enter the Sphinx project
    cd docs/
    
    # Run the raw sphinx-build command
    sphinx-build -M html . _build/


You can also build the documentation locally with ``make``:

.. code-block:: console

    # Enter the Sphinx project
    cd docs/
    
    # Build with make
    make html
    
    # Open with your preferred browser, pointing it to the documentation index page
    firefox _build/html/index.html


Using the example in your own project
-------------------------------------

If you are new to Read the Docs, you may want to refer to the `Read the Docs User documentation <https://docs.readthedocs.io/>`_.

If you are copying this code in order to get started with your documentation, you need to:

#. place your ``docs/`` folder alongside your Python project. If you are starting a new project, you can adapt the `pyproject.toml` example configuration.
#. use your existing project repository or create a new repository on Github, GitLab, Bitbucket or another host supported by Read the Docs
#. copy ``.readthedocs.yaml`` and the ``docs/`` folder into your project.
#. customize all the files, replacing example contents.
#. add your own Python project, replacing the ``pyproject.toml`` configuration and ``lumache.py`` module.
#. rebuild the documenation locally to see that it works.
#. *finally*, register your project on Read the Docs, see `Importing Your Documentation <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/intro/import-guide.html>`_.


Read the Docs tutorial
----------------------

To get started with Read the Docs, you may also refer to the `Read the Docs tutorial <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/>`__.
It provides a full walk-through of building an example project similar to the one in this repository.

Commit message:

expanded tutorial text: continuous rotation intro

docs/simple continuous cropping.rst, after:

Simple Continuous Cropping
=====
The most classical starting point in the learning and usage of crop models is the simulation of a single crop cycle, from sowing to harvest.
For example, when crop models are used to simulate various treatments of an agricultural field trial, 
each treatment is typically represented by a single crop cycle simulation. 
This even holds true if the experimental data stem from continuous multi-year trials on identical plots.
Crop model simulations of such single crop cycles are typically used for crop model calibration and evaluation, and are then employed for more analytical purposes subsequently. 
These may include exploring the effects of different management practices or changing environmental conditions, such as climate change, on crop growth, crop yield, and further outcome indicators.

This section expands on this classical starting point by demonstrating how to set up and run a simple long-term simulation of a single crop grown continuously over multiple years.
We primarily consider carrying over the simulation state from one crop cycle to the next and, for comparison, resetting it at the start of each new cycle.


Long-term simulation of a single crop with state carry-over
-------------------------------------
Extending the simulation of a single crop cycle to the repeated, continuous growth of the same crop over multiple years can easily be achieved in APSIM.
It predominently entails:
- Extending the start and end dates of the simulation in the clock-node of the simulation tree to the desired multi-year period.
- Specifying rule-based management actions - such as for sowing, fertilisation, and irrigation - based on desired triggers, such as fixed dates, or more commonly, soil water and precipitation thresholds.

For instance, consider the two widely used example APSIM files ``Sorghum.apsimx`` and ``Wheat.apsimx`` included with the APSIM installation,
which you can access by selecting "Open an Example" from the top toolbar of the APSIM graphical user interface (GUI).

.. figure:: _static/APSIMscreenshot_topLevelToolbar.png
   :alt: APSIM top-level toolbar
   :align: center
   :width: 100%

   Top toolbar from the APSIM GUI, showing the "Open an Example" button.

Instead of the simulation of the crops over a single season, both files simulate continuous crop growth over a period of 100 years, from 1900 to 2000.



`Sorghum APSIM example <_APSIM_code/Sorghum_continuous_carryOver/Sorghum_continuous_carryOver.apsimx>`_


This example file simulates irrigated sorghum in Dalby, Queensland, Australia. However, instead of simulating exclusively a single crop cycle, from sowing to harvest,
this example file simulates the continuous growth of sorghum over a period of 100 years, from 1900 to 2000.

a single sorghum crop grown in a tropical environment in Queensland, Australia.

cycle, from sowing to harvest









Example: Basic Sphinx project for Read the Docs
-------------------------------------

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/example-sphinx-basic/badge/?version=latest
    :target: https://example-sphinx-basic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
    :alt: Documentation Status

.. This README.rst should work on Github and is also included in the Sphinx documentation project in docs/ - therefore, README.rst uses absolute links for most things so it renders properly on GitHub

This example shows a basic Sphinx project with Read the Docs. You're encouraged to view it to get inspiration and copy & paste from the files in the source code. If you are using Read the Docs for the first time, have a look at the official `Read the Docs Tutorial <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/index.html>`__.

📚 `docs/ <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/>`_
    A basic Sphinx project lives in ``docs/``. All the ``*.rst`` make up sections in the documentation.
⚙️ `.readthedocs.yaml <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/.readthedocs.yaml>`_
    Read the Docs Build configuration is stored in ``.readthedocs.yaml``.
⚙️ `docs/conf.py <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/conf.py>`_
    Both the configuration and the folder layout follow Sphinx default conventions. You can change the `Sphinx configuration values <https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/configuration.html>`_ in this file
📍 `docs/requirements.txt <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/requirements.txt>`_ and `docs/requirements.in <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/requirements.in>`_
    Python dependencies are `pinned <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/reproducible-builds.html>`_ (uses `pip-tools <https://pip-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_). Make sure to add your Python dependencies to ``requirements.txt`` or if you choose `pip-tools <https://pip-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_, edit ``docs/requirements.in`` and remember to run ``pip-compile docs/requirements.in``.
💡 `docs/api.rst <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/api.rst>`_
    By adding our example Python module ``lumache`` in the reStructuredText directive ``:autosummary:``, Sphinx will automatically scan this module and generate API docs.
💡 `docs/usage.rst <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/docs/usage.rst>`_
    Sphinx can automatically extract API documentation directly from Python modules, using for instance the ``:autofunction:`` directive.
💡 `lumache.py <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/lumache.py>`_
    API docs are generated for this example Python module - they use *docstrings* directly in the documentation, notice how this shows up in the rendered documentation.
🔢 Git tags versioning
    We use a basic versioning mechanism by adding a git tag for every release of the example project. All releases and their version numbers are visible on `example-sphinx-basic.readthedocs.io <https://example-sphinx-basic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__.
📜 `README.rst <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/blob/main/README.rst>`_
    Contents of this ``README.rst`` are visible on Github and included on `the documentation index page <https://example-sphinx-basic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ (Don't Repeat Yourself).
⁉️ Questions / comments
    If you have questions related to this example, feel free to can ask them as a Github issue `here <https://github.com/readthedocs-examples/example-sphinx-basic/issues>`_.


Example Project usage
---------------------

This project has a standard Sphinx layout which is built by Read the Docs almost the same way that you would build it locally (on your own laptop!).

You can build and view this documentation project locally - we recommend that you activate `a local Python virtual environment first <https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#creating-a-virtual-environment>`_:

.. code-block:: console

    # Install required Python dependencies (Sphinx etc.)
    pip install -r docs/requirements.txt

    # Enter the Sphinx project
    cd docs/
    
    # Run the raw sphinx-build command
    sphinx-build -M html . _build/


You can also build the documentation locally with ``make``:

.. code-block:: console

    # Enter the Sphinx project
    cd docs/
    
    # Build with make
    make html
    
    # Open with your preferred browser, pointing it to the documentation index page
    firefox _build/html/index.html


Using the example in your own project
-------------------------------------

If you are new to Read the Docs, you may want to refer to the `Read the Docs User documentation <https://docs.readthedocs.io/>`_.

If you are copying this code in order to get started with your documentation, you need to:

#. place your ``docs/`` folder alongside your Python project. If you are starting a new project, you can adapt the `pyproject.toml` example configuration.
#. use your existing project repository or create a new repository on Github, GitLab, Bitbucket or another host supported by Read the Docs
#. copy ``.readthedocs.yaml`` and the ``docs/`` folder into your project.
#. customize all the files, replacing example contents.
#. add your own Python project, replacing the ``pyproject.toml`` configuration and ``lumache.py`` module.
#. rebuild the documenation locally to see that it works.
#. *finally*, register your project on Read the Docs, see `Importing Your Documentation <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/intro/import-guide.html>`_.


Read the Docs tutorial
----------------------

To get started with Read the Docs, you may also refer to the `Read the Docs tutorial <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/>`__.
It provides a full walk-through of building an example project similar to the one in this repository.
